.TH obdgpslogger 1
.SH NAME
obdgpslogger \- Log OBD and GPS data to sqlite

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B obdgpslogger [ options ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
This is a tool to log OBDII and GPS data to an sqlite database

.SH OPTIONS
.IX Header "OPTIONS"
.IP "-s|--serial <serialport>"
Open this serial port device to connect to the elm327 device.
.IP "-c|--count <count>"
Take this many samples at most. Leaving this option out defaults
to incessant sampling.
.IP "-a|--samplerate <samples-per-second>"
Sample at most this many times a second. The software will sleep
temporarily at the end of each loop if appropriate. Keep in mind
there is an upper limit to samplerate, typically capped by I/O on
your serial port. Set this to zero to sample as fast as possible.
.IP "-d|--db <database>"
Open this database to log data to. The software will create the
database if it does not exist, and create the tables it needs.
.IP "-v|--version"
Print out version number and exit.
.IP "-h|--help"
Print out help and exit.
 
.SH NOT OPTIONS
.IX Header "NOT OPTIONS"
These options are not intended to be used by end users using the command
line, they are support options for the GUI component. Use or rely on
them at your own peril.
.IP "-n|--no-autotrip"
Disable automatic trip starting and stopping. If you use this, you can
send SIGUSR1 and SIGUSR2 to start and stop trips, respectively.
.IP "-t|--spam-stdout"
Write all readings to stdout. The format is unlikely to change in
practice, but if you choose to try to parse this yourself, I don't want
to hear about it when it does change.

.SH BUGS
.IX Header "BUGS"
The software doesn't check the existing tables in the database. If
they do exist when it tries to create them, you'll see a warning
but execution will continue. If the tables lack columns the INSERT
is expecting, then expect a frenzy of unexpected behaviour, mostly
pointless warnings and a whole lot of nothing INSERTed.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IX Header "SEE ALSO"
.BR "obd2kml(1), obd2csv(1)"

.SH AUTHORS
Gary "Chunky Ks" Briggs <chunky@icculus.org>

